
# Related Fields to AI

In addition to AI, there are several other closely related topics that are good to know at least by name. These include machine learning, data science, and deep learning.

## Machine Learning
Machine learning can be said to be a subfield of AI, which itself is a subfield of computer science. Machine learning enables AI solutions that are adaptive. A concise definition can be given as follows:

**Machine learning**: Systems that improve their performance in a given task with more and more experience or data.

## Deep Learning
Deep learning is a subfield of machine learning, which itself is a subfield of AI, which itself is a subfield of computer science. The “depth” of deep learning refers to the complexity of a mathematical model. Increased computing power has allowed researchers to increase this complexity to reach levels that appear not only quantitatively but also qualitatively different from before.

## Data Science
Data science is a recent umbrella term that includes machine learning and statistics, certain aspects of computer science including algorithms, data storage, and web application development. Data science is also a practical discipline that requires understanding of the domain in which it is applied, for example, business or science.

## Robotics
Robotics means building and programming robots so that they can operate in complex, real-world scenarios. In a way, robotics is the ultimate challenge of AI since it requires a combination of virtually all areas of AI. For example:
- Computer vision and speech recognition for sensing the environment
- Natural language processing, information retrieval, and reasoning under uncertainty for processing instructions and predicting consequences of potential actions
- Cognitive modeling and affective computing for interacting and working together with humans

### What is a robot?
A robot is a machine comprising sensors (which sense the environment) and actuators (which act on the environment) that can be programmed to perform sequences of actions. Any kind of vehicles that have at least some level of autonomy and include sensors and actuators are also counted as robotics.

